Introduce Admin API chapter (#1860)
PrestaShop/docs: admin-api/authorization_server/internal_authorization.md

---
title: Internal authorization server
menuTitle: Internal authorization server
weight: 1
---

# Internal authorization server

PrestaShop can be used as an authorization server, as such it can handle the permissions and authentication to access the resource server.

When PrestaShop is used as the authorization server, it doesn't need to perform an external call to validate the access token since it already has all the required data to do so in its database, but it still performs the same role.

## Create API client

> Let's create our first client. You can add as many clients to the API as you want. In the real-world scenario, you probably want to create separate client for each service you want to integrate. You will probably have clients like "My ERP integration", "Some marketing automation tool client", etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's create our first client. You can add as many clients to the API as you want. In the real-world scenario, you probably want to create a separate client for each service you want to integrate. You will probably have clients like "My ERP integration", "Some marketing automation tool client", etc.
```

![PrestaShop 9 Form for adding a new API client](../img/api_add_new_client2.jpeg)

* **Client name** - the name of the client: it can be anything you want. It's just for your reference.
* **Client ID** - the ID of the client, which is a unique identifier for the client. It should be written without spaces or special characters.
* **Description** - a description of the client: it can be anything you want. It's just for your reference.
* **Lifetime** - the lifetime of the client. It's the time after which the client access token will expire. In seconds.
* **Enabled** - if the client is enabled or not. If it's not enabled, the client won't be able to use the API.
* **Scopes** - the scopes the client can use. You can enable multiple scopes. Each time you add a new scope, you will have to adjust the client's settings.

{{% notice %}}
As part of API extensibility, you can add new scopes to the API. This will allow you to create more granular permissions for your clients. You can find an [example module here](https://github.com/PrestaShop/example-modules/tree/master/api_module) and in [ps_apiresources](https://github.com/PrestaShop/ps_apiresources) repository.
{{% /notice %}}

> After you save the client, you will see the client secret, but you won't be able to see it again. You can only see it once when you generate it. It's important to save it because you need it to authenticate your client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once again: after you save the client, you will see the client secret, but you won't be able to see it again. You can only see it once when you generate it. It's important to save it because you need it to authenticate your client.
```

---
title: Internal authorization server
menuTitle: Internal authorization server
weight: 1
---

# Internal authorization server

PrestaShop can be used as an authorization server, as such it can handle the permissions and authentication to access the resource server.

> When PrestaShop is used as the authorization server it doesn't need to perform an external call to validate the access token since it already has all the required data to do so in its database, but it still performs the same role.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When PrestaShop is used as the authorization server, it doesn't need to perform an external call to validate the access token since it already has all the required data to do so in its database, but it still performs the same role.
```

## Create API client

Let's create our first client. You can add as many clients to the API as you want. In the real-world scenario, you probably want to create separate client for each service you want to integrate. You will probably have clients like "My ERP integration", "Some marketing automation tool client", etc.

To add a new API client, navigate to Advanced Parameters -> Admin API page. Here you can see a list of all API clients, you can add a new one by clicking the "Add new API Client" button.

![PrestaShop 9 API Client](../img/api_add_new_client1.jpeg)

If you want to add a new client, you must provide information about it. In the form below, you must provide all the necessary information about the client. After that, you can click the "Generate client secret and save" button. This will generate a client secret for you and save the client in the database. **It's important to save the client secret because you won't be able to see it again.**

![PrestaShop 9 Form for adding a new API client](../img/api_add_new_client2.jpeg)

> <p class="text-center text-muted small">Form for adding a new API client</p>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Form for adding a new API client
```

because this title is displayed as normal text

Author: This was copied from the blog article, but it doesn't make sense here I'll remove it completely

* **scope** - the scopes you want to use. You can provide multiple scopes. In this case, we are going to use `api_client_read`, `api_client_write`, `customer_group_read`, `customer_group_write`.

{{% notice %}}
You have many tools to debug APIs. You can use Postman, [curl](https://curl.se/), or any other tool (like [Insomnia](https://insomnia.rest/)) that allows you to make HTTP requests. In this tutorial, I will use [Postman API client](https://www.postman.com/api-platform/api-client/), so that you can quickly test the API with a user-friendly interface.
{{% /notice %}}

Example request using curl:

```bash
curl --location 'http://yourdomain.test/admin-api/access_token' \
--form 'grant_type="client_credentials"' \
--form 'client_id="your_client_id"' \
--form 'client_secret="your_client_secret"' \
--form 'scope[]="api_client_read"' \
--form 'scope[]="api_client_write"' \
--form 'scope[]="customer_group_read"' \
--form 'scope[]="customer_group_write"'
```

Example request using Postman:

{{< figure src="../img/postman_access_token.png" title="Screenshot from Postman where we retrieve access token for our client" >}}

{{% notice %}}

> As you can see in the screenshot, I am using project variables in Postman. This way, you can easily switch between different environments (like development, staging, and production) and don't have to change the request data (URL, client_id, etc.) every time you switch environments. You also won't find Authorization header in the request because it's generated automatically by Postman, thanks to ["Inherit authorization from parent"](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/authorization/specifying-authorization-details/#inherit-authorization) option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see in the screenshot, we are using project variables in Postman. This way, you can easily switch between different environments (like development, staging, and production) and don't have to change the request data (URL, client_id, etc.) every time you switch environments. You also won't find Authorization header in the request because it's generated automatically by Postman, thanks to ["Inherit authorization from parent"](https://learning.postman.com/docs/sending-requests/authorization/specifying-authorization-details/#inherit-authorization) option.
```
